[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: The
bane of our existence,
particularly those from the
Western and secular world,
is both a fear of
aging and dying.
Millions of dollars
a year are spent
on pills and potions,
books and DVDs
annually on the attempt
to stop the aging process.
But what if there was one
thing primarily responsible
for aging, and
what if that thing
could be reversed in the body?
Would you take it?
Would you want to live to
be hundreds of years old?
The search for an
end to old age is
explored in the film,
"The Immortalist."
>>BILL ANDREWS: Hundreds
of years from now,
we're going to look
back and be shocked
about this horrible
world that we all
used to live in where people
used to get old and die.
>>AUBREY DE GREY:
We're interested
not in slowing aging down,
but in actually reversing
it, turning back the
biological clock.
This is not science fiction.
Even if I bring
forward the defeat
of aging by just one day, that's
100,000 lives that I've saved.
It's just astronomical.
>>ANDREWS: Harvard
has actually been
able to reverse aging in mice
using telomere lengthening
technology.
>>DE GREY: Once we are
really, truly repairing things
as fast as they go
wrong, game over.
We will have the ability
to live indefinitely.
>>ANDREWS: Curing
aging is a race.
The clock ticks once,
telomerase pushes it back.
It ticks again,
>>MOLLY SHERIDAN: If
Bill gets to his goal,
then our marraige is
forever and ever and ever.
Think about that one.
>>REGINA: We have two doctors
in the field of anti-aging
recently featured in the
film, "The Immortalist"--
Bill Andrews and Terry Grossman.
Welcome both of you.
This is kind of fun
interviewing a couple
people at one time on this show.
This is really a subject that
is the holy grail for probably
most of humanity, because
of our innate fear,
as animals, of
declining and death.
So first of all, it's
such a huge topic.
I wanted to find out-- some
of the people have not seen,
most of the people probably have
not seen "The Immortalist" yet.
So we need to get to know
you and what you're doing
and a little bit
about the science.
So let's start first with Bill,
and then go to you, Terry.
>>ANDREWS: It was
a long time ago.
When I was 10 years
old, I was already
somebody that was
really interested
in first contact in outer space.
I want to be around when
we actually met something.
I was actually looking
through a telescope
at the stars and stuff
when my father came up
to the front lawn of our
house, and said to me, "Bill,
since you're so interested
in science and medicine,
maybe when you grow
up, become a doctor,
and find a cure for aging."
>>REGINA: And that
resonated with you
when you were just a little guy?
>>ANDREWS: Yeah, because
I thought, boy, if I ever
want to be around when we
find life on other planets
and stuff like that, I was
very interested in the future,
whether it was life on other
planets or something else.
I was just very
interested in the future.
And I'm not going to
be around to see it
if I live the short life
that everybody else lives,
so I became obsessed with the
idea of trying to cure aging.
And I also want to
be involved in trying
to solve all the future
problems in science and things.
And I thought, we've got
to solve aging first,
just to make certain that I
can stay around long enough,
and other people can
stay around long enough
to enjoy the future
that I think we have.
>>REGINA: That's
as good a reason
as any to want to be part of
everything that's coming up.
So with that, in a
little bit, we're
going to get into
some of the science,
because it is still an emerging
science, so to speak, right?
>>ANDREWS: Yes, it is.
>>REGINA: I mean, it sounds
like the field of research
here is bringing up new
potentials, new what ends up
being products and
active ingredients
and such all the time that
are showing that they're
going to have this effect
on the science we'll
be talking about in a bit.
How about you, Terry?
What got you into anti-aging?
>>TERRY GROSSMAN:
I'd have to say
that I got it into anti-aging,
because I began to recognize
that I was actually
experiencing aging.
>>REGINA: Another
good motivator.
>>GROSSMAN: It was a
personal experience.
I was 47 years of age at the
time, which was 20 years ago.
And at that time, I
saw an advertisement
in a throwaway medical journal
for an organizational meeting.
The group was called
A4M, the American Academy
of Anti-Aging Medicine.
And back then, 20
years ago, there
was no such thing as
anti-aging medicine,
and I thought that
this is a really very
different and profound
concept that we can actually
use medicine to address aging.
So I went to this
meeting, and everything
was turned around for me.
Back then, I was a
conventional doctor
practicing medicine the way I've
been taught in medical school.
And then all of a sudden, I got
the idea that, wait a minute,
heart disease affects a certain
percentage of the population,
and cancer affects a certain
percent of the population,
but aging affects everybody.
So this was a disease that,
as an anti-aging physician,
I felt I could essentially
help everybody.
And I was interested in
myself, because at 47, 48,
I was beginning to get some
wear and tear in my own body,
and I thought if it
were possible for me
to slow down, to stop and even
reverse the aging process,
this would be something
I was interested in.
There is an Indian
proverb that goes,
people get old and die, because
they see others around them
get old and die.
>>REGINA: Oh, boy.
I'm on board with that.
It's amazing, the programming.
>>GROSSMAN: Exactly.
I decided that I really
didn't want to buy into that.
So I think that the
main anti-aging organ
that we have really
is our brain,
and the way that you
think about aging,
and the way you think about
how you're experiencing
your life in terms
of the aging process
plays a very profound role
in how well you do age.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And to go a little
esoteric, in fact,
flat out into religion and
the Old Testament, when there
are references to Noah, for
example, living well into their
what?
Ninth century, 10th century?
Now how do you perceive that?
What do you think was
going on in the time--
I'm assuming it's literal
and not metaphorical,
but we don't know-- how
do you both perceive that?
What humanity may have once
done as to where we are now?
>>ANDREWS: Well, I don't
think there's any way
for us to know if
that happened or not,
but I am aware of
the possibility
that the year was
defined differently.
It might have been they defined
a year as every full moon,
and that would explain
900 plus years old.
>>REGINA: So a
different calendar.
>>ANDREWS: Yeah, different
type of calendar.
>>GROSSMAN: I agree with Bill.
In the Bible, up until the
time of the flood in Noah,
there were individuals that
lived 800, 900, 960 years.
And I think given what
we know about biology,
humans can't live that long, and
I assume that humans of 5000,
6000, 7000 years ago didn't have
that much longer than we lived.
So I think that I agree
with Bill that what happened
is considered a lunar
month as a solar--
>>REGINA: OK.
>>GROSSMAN: So it
was a revolution
around the moon versus
a revolution of the sun,
and therefore, you know, 800
and some odd years for them
would have been 70
some odd years for us.
>>REGINA: So we just have
to address that, and then
from your perspective,
get that off the table.
It's not as though
we somehow have
devolved into this
current lifespan.
It's that this is the
nature of humanity.
And so your dad was also
a part of your journey.
Let's talk about
that for a moment.
>>ANDREWS: My father, he--
>>REGINA: Besides telling
you, find the answer, kid.
>>ANDREWS: He's just
been obsessed with it.
He's a television
producer, and he actually
was starting to make
documentaries and stuff
like that on scientists
trying to cure aging,
I want to say back
in the early 1980s.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>ANDREWS: And especially
later on in the early 1990s.
And so he's been always
obsessed with this,
and he still is very
obsessed with it.
Though he's now suffering from
a lot of these related things
that people try to avoid,
especially Alzheimer's.
He's got severe
Alzheimer's at the moment,
so I'm hoping that we come
through with something fast
to allow him to achieve
his dream, which
was to see his own lifespan
and health span extended
and his aging reversed.
>>REGINA: And you
picked up the gauntlet.
So I would like to go into
the science and explain,
have you explain the function
of telomeres in the body.
Because again, this holy
grail is getting down
to this one aspect of
our biology, right?
So who would like to
go first on explaining
the nature of the
science of telomeres?
>>ANDREWS: What do you prefer?
>>GROSSMAN: Well, I'd
prefer Bill, because--
>>REGINA: OK.
Now you've been in
this for how long
since you started bringing
telomere science forward?
>>ANDREWS: The field of
telomere biology since 1993.
>>REGINA: OK.
And I will say to our viewers,
we're saying telomeres,
"teela-meres," "te-lom-a-rase,"
so you're going to hear this
pronounced--
>>ANDREWS: "Te-la-mer-ase."
>>REGINA: --of a telomeres,
a variety of different ways,
and so far as we've
been able to understand,
there's no right way.
So go ahead.
>>ANDREWS: They're all correct.
>>REGINA: They're all correct.
>>ANDREWS: But first,
I believe there's
a lot of things that
cause us to age.
And so oftentimes I'll
give presentations,
and I'll show 20
different things, theories
on what causes us to age.
And I just believe
in all of them.
I think of them as
a stick of dynamite
that's burning inside of us.
So really what matters is
which stick of dynamite
has the shortest fuse, and I
think in humans-- humans, dogs,
cats, horses, sheep, pig, and
deer are the only ones that
have been shown so far to
actually have telomeres,
actually, telomere shorting
be their shortest fuse.
And so--
>>REGINA: Now explain what
telomere shortening is.
>>ANDREWS: Telomeres-- OK.
The telomeres are the very
tips of our chromosomes.
You think of a chromosome
like a shoelace.
The caps or aglets
on your shoelaces
are equivalent to the
telomeres on our chromosomes.
And we all know that when
the aglets on our shoelaces
get short, our shoelaces
start to fall apart.
Well, the same is true
for our chromosomes.
When the telomeres on our
chromosomes get short,
our chromosomes
start to fall apart,
and we actually can see these
in the microscope-- chromosome
rearrangements.
>>REGINA: Does it look of
frayed ends and fragmented, or?
>>ANDREWS: Not
exactly the same way.
A model with a telomere
shoelace isn't 100% correct,
but what happens is that
the telomere protects
the chromosome, because
it's a linear chromosome,
and there's all kinds
of enzymes inside
of a cell that can degrade DNA.
Telomeres kind of protect it.
When they get
short, their ability
to protect decreases
tremendously,
and their ability to be able
to regulate gene expression
on the chromosomes, the
rest of the chromosomes,
changes a lot when
they get shorter.
And so what we have found,
or we-- when I say we,
sometimes I mean
scientists that were doing
this research before
I got involved--
we found that every
time our cells divide,
the telomeres get a
little bit shorter
by about 50 to 100 bases.
And DNA's measured in bases.
A typical chromosome is about
100 million bases in length.
And the telomeres are about
15,000 bases in length.
And that's how long they are
when we're first conceived,
but every time a
cell divides, they
get about 50 to
100 bases shorter.
So much cell
division is involved
from going from a single
cell embryo to a newborn baby
that even by the
time you're born,
your telomeres have already
shortened down to 10,000 bases.
They've gone from 15,000--
>>REGINA: Gone through
a third of them.
>>ANDREWS: Yeah.
Now that's still OK, just
like if your shoelace caps got
one third shorter, your
shoelaces would still be OK.
But the problem
doesn't stop there,
because now we have
a lot more cell
division that we go through
as we get older and develop,
and the telomeres just keep
getting shorter and shorter
and shorter, and when telomeres
get down to 5,000 bases--
and we know this from working
with human cells in a Petri
dish, and we also know this
from taking tissue samples
from people of different
ages and measuring
the length of their telomeres--
WHEN telomeres get down
to 5,000 bases, that's when
everything starts happening.
That's when the chromosomes
start falling apart,
our cells lose the ability
to function normally,
and every single disease
you've ever heard of
has now been connected to
the length of the telomeres.
So when they get
short, it causes--
it's not the only
thing that causes--
but it plays a big role
in causing practically
every age-related and
even non-age-related
ailment that we've heard of.
And so that's what
we're trying to do.
We're trying to keep
that from happening.
We're trying to
keep telomeres long.
The biggest discoveries in,
especially the last five years,
have been showing that when
telomeres get really short,
the chromosome starts
getting mutated, and--
>>REGINA: That's what
I was going to ask.
There must be a degrading
of genetic information
with this continual breakdown.
And then what happens once
the genetic information has
been degraded?
>>ANDREWS: It never
gets-- the telomeres never
get short enough
to actually start
degrading the
genetic information.
>>REGINA: How do
the mutations occur?
>>ANDREWS: Mutations occur
just from, let's say,
one way is from the
chromosomes rearranging.
So when a chromosome breaks
and rejoins, that's a mutation.
Especially when it rejoins
to a different chromosome.
And so it essentially puts
the expression machinery
to express a gene under
control of some other gene.
And so different genes will be
expressed at different levels
than they're supposed to.
>>REGINA: Give us a
kindergarten example of that.
>>ANDREWS: A
kindergarten example.
OK.
So I don't know.
Let's say you have a gene
that produces blue eye color.
So you have a chromosome
rearrangement.
Now you put it under
control of a much stronger
what are called promoters that
drive the production of a gene,
or expression of a gene.
It now puts it under stronger
things, so as a result,
your eyes will get bluer.
OK.
But that would be the
kindergarten example.
The more non-kindergarten
example that I wanted to use
was cancer.
When the telomeres
get really short,
all these chromosomal
rearrangements
occur and mutations
and stuff, and those
appear to be the mutations
that actually cause cancer.
And so keeping
the telomeres long
has now been suggested as a way
to decrease the risk of getting
cancer, and also increase
your immune system's ability
to fight cancer if you
already have cancer.
So the same is true
for heart disease.
Same is true for
muscular dystrophy,
macular degeneration.
Every disease we've
practically ever heard of now
has been connected in some way
in scientifically peer reviewed
journal articles.
>>REGINA: Where my mind's
kind of just drifting
to as you're speaking
about this is we
look at all of the
other areas of kind
of newly emerging science in
the world of quantum physics,
for example, in the
quantum realm and thoughts,
and the thoughts affect, and
you said mind earlier on.
The mind has a great
deal to do with this.
First of all, I want
to ask you that.
And then have you talk a bit
about in your clinic, some
of the protocols you
use and such, because I
know that the products
that are becoming available
are all newly emerging, and
you've been at this for awhile,
and look at some of the
more common protocols you're
using to extend the lifespan
or keep intact the telomeres.
But what about mind?
How does mind factor into this?
>>GROSSMAN: Well, Bill
works in the laboratory,
and he's doing important work
to help us find substances that
can increase the length
of the telomeres.
In my clinic, I'm
working as a clinician
taking care of patients.
So some of the things
that i like to do
is measure the
length of telomeres.
So we can-- there are
now some tests that
are available that
will tell patients
how long their
telomeres are, and also
what percentage of them
are particularly short.
And this is very valuable
information to know,
because it's, essentially, a
yardstick for how we are aging.
So this test has become
commercially available
in the last few years.
So we're offering
that to patients,
and then based on this, we can
make recommendations, advice
to people about what they
can do in their own life
to extend the length
of their telomeres.
So for instance,
some things that you
can do that are simple,
they make a lot of sense.
Get good exercise.
Get plenty of deep sleep.
Drink green tea.
Take antioxidants.
Those are all lifestyle
choices that you
can make that will keep
your telomeres long.
One of the things that
you can do to shorten them
as much as possible is
to stress yourself out.
And they did an experiment where
they looked at spouses who were
taking care of another
spouse with Alzheimer's.
And that is an
unbelievably stressful job.
And these people,
their telomeres
shortened dramatically.
So we know that stress
will shorten telomeres.
We also know that
getting massages,
relaxation, meditation,
things that you
can do to control stress--
>>REGINA: Using the mind in
a more profound manner, yeah.
>>GROSSMAN:
Absolutely-- are things
that we could do to extend
the length of the telomeres.
>>REGINA: Let's talk about that
from both your perspectives
a little bit more--
the whole notion
of being kind of an
adrenal-addicted society,
adrenaline-addicted society, and
what that's doing to our bodies
in terms of aging.
>>GROSSMAN: Well,
unfortunately, our adrenals
are the glands in our body that
are responsible for helping
us to deal with stress,
and we evolved in an era
where we were subjected
to short bursts
of huge amounts of stress.
Here comes a saber
toothed tiger.
We're stressed a
lot, so the cortisol
squirts out of our adrenals,
and it tells us run, run fast.
Fight hard.
Do what we need to do.
It's a fight or flight response.
And this is what the
adrenals are supposed to do.
Then the danger is over.
We lay down and relax as we
did many, many millennia ago.
>>REGINA: Probably until just
a couple hundred years ago,
really.
>>GROSSMAN: Absolutely.
Industrial Revolution
life changed.
Well, we don't live
like that today.
We don't have saber toothed
tigers to worry about.
But we do have chronic stress.
It's there all the time.
We have to worry about
paying the mortgage
and getting the kids
through college.
>>REGINA: I was going
to say once money
came onto the scene and
freeways and automobiles
and private schools.
>>GROSSMAN: And all
these chronic stressors.
I mean, just
watching the evening
news is a stressful experience.
So we're chronically
stressed all the time,
and our adrenals aren't
accustomed to dealing
with this, and this takes its
toll on our telomeres as well.
>>ANDREWS: And there's been
scientifically peer reviewed
journal articles showing
that households that
have higher incomes, so average
household income is actually
affecting telomeres length.
So people--
>>REGINA: Let's talk about that.
>>ANDREWS: --that have low
household income actually
have shorter telomeres
than families that
have high household income
because of the stress
that financial problems cause.
And all kinds of stress, like
in addition to the caregivers
for Alzheimer's patients
that Terry just mentioned,
adults that had been abused
as children have been shown
to have shorter telomeres
than adults that weren't.
And these were all compared
to people of all the same age,
and one was like abused as
children, and one wasn't.
There's a significant difference
in the telomeres length.
Now it's not because
some better lifestyle
choices lengthen telomeres.
It's because it
prevents what I call
accelerated telomere shorting.
Accelerated telomere
shortening is
caused from like
stress-induced production
of free radicals,
which have been shown
to specifically
cleave telomeres.
Also inflammation
of various types
will cause increased
cell division,
which will actually
shorten your telomeres.
And so there's a whole
battery of things
that people can do to get
their telomeres to shorten
at the slowest possible rate.
And I'm going to
name a few, and Terry
can add to anything I leave off.
It's like antioxidants,
vitamin D, omega 3 fatty acids,
endurance exercise-- that's
been one of the big surprises,
because endurance
exercise has always
been thought of something
that actually creates
more free radicals, and makes
it so that we die sooner.
But now studies are showing
that actually our ability
to actually boost our
antioxidant levels
is so much more powerful.
Somebody who's a
consistent runner--
>>REGINA: Like you.
You're a long distance runner.
>>ANDREWS: I'm glad to say
I'm under that category,
but I got into the
sport long before I
knew about the benefits
to my telomeres.
But it's been shown that if
you're a consistent runner,
you actually have
lower oxidative
stress than non-runners.
And so the studies
have now shown,
at least five
different studies I
know of in scientifically
peer reviewed journals
have shown that the more
intense your endurance,
the longer your telomeres with
ultra marathon runners having
the longest telomeres of all.
The other thing is that most
of the studies before now
have been done on mice, and mice
have 10 times less antioxidants
than humans do.
This is from a book
by Richard Cutler,
one of the pioneers of the whole
free radical theory on aging.
And that's one of the
problems with mouse studies
is that you can't always believe
what you see in mice that it's
going to relate to humans.
But humans have 10 times
the level of antioxidants
and therefore, the effects
of free radical production
are a lot less than in mice.
>>REGINA: And yet
at the same time,
there are also
studies using mice
having to do with what
has been, up until now,
potentially controversial
aspect of this, which is cancer,
and the nature of cancer,
and the telomere length
having to do with cancer.
So if you'll explain that, and
then also some of the studies
that have been done
conversely on mice
to essentially show that
long telomere length does not
indicate cancer.
>>ANDREWS: Terry, first, did you
have anything to add that I--
>>GROSSMAN: Well, these
lifestyle recommendations
that Bill referenced
do make a lot of sense.
But by the same token,
you want to also avoid
the things that will shorten
your telomeres more quickly.
And those are
things that we know
are bad like cigarette smoking
will do that, in addition
to being stressed out a
lot, in addition to eating
lot of sugar and junk foods.
Those will shorten your
telomeres quite quickly,
so making positive
lifestyle choices,
and avoiding the bad
lifestyle choices.
It's the things that we
actually-- like they say,
it's what we all
learned in kindergarten.
>>ANDREWS: And I forgot to
mention smoking and obesity.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
smoking and obesity.
>>ANDREWS: Those things have
caused accelerated telomere
shortening.
>>REGINA: Well,
and our ancestors,
they didn't live this
kind of lifestyle,
but their average age was what?
About 45?
>>GROSSMAN: A hundred years ago,
it wasn't much more than that.
About 48 in 1900.
And now it's increased to close
to 80 in the United States.
>>ANDREWS: In the
Roman days it was 20.
>>REGINA: 20.
And yet we're under increasingly
more stress with modernization,
but we also have better medical
care, access to nutrients,
we can get in and out of the
rain, and that sort of thing.
>>ANDREWS: Better sewage
systems, refrigeration.
>>REGINA: Better
sewerage system.
>>ANDREWS: Coronary
bypass surgery.
Even chemotherapy has extended
the average lifespan of people.
>>REGINA: OK.
Let's talk about that.
Let's talk about the notion of
telomeres, cancer, and mice.
Of mice and men.
>>ANDREWS: It was
thought a long time ago--
and when I say a
long time ago, I'm
talking about the early 1990s--
that one of the best ways
to kill off a cancer is to allow
the telomeres to get really
short.
Because as I said, every
time a cell divides,
telomeres get short.
The definition of cancer is
out of control cell growth,
cell division.
So the cells are
dividing and dividing,
and the telomeres are
getting shorter and shorter.
Suddenly, short telomeres
kill the cancer.
So don't worry about cancer.
So that was a lot of theories.
Plus, we had shown
back in the early 1990s
that shortly after we discovered
human telomeres that if we
inhibited telomerase activity
in any way in cancer cells,
it caused them to
die right away.
And lots of big press about
this, and so a common belief
started that
inhibiting telomerase
is the best way to fight
cancer, not producing it.
But what is--
>>GROSSMAN: Maybe you should
define what telomerase is.
>>ANDREWS: Oh, we haven't
defined telomerase.
>>REGINA: We have not.
>>ANDREWS: OK.
Telomerase is-- so back
in the early 1990s,
we knew that cancer
cells seemed to never run
into this problem
of short telomeres.
It was-- what is happening?
If you take a human
cell in a Petri dish,
and divide it and divide
it in a Petri dish,
it would divide at only
like about 50 times,
and then it stops.
This is called the
Hayflick limit,
and the cells reach a
point called senescence.
Now cancer cells don't do that.
And it was found
that the telomeres
don't shorten in cancer cells.
Even though it was found
that the telomeres are really
short in cancer cells, they
just don't get any shorter.
Then it was also discovered that
our human reproductive cells
also don't have that problem.
When our human
reproductive cells,
the cells that produce our
sperm and our eggs, divide,
they don't get
telomere shortening.
And so what was going on here?
And if they did shorten, then
that would mean our children
were going to be born
with shorter telomeres
than we have, and their children
would be born with shorter--
>>REGINA: We'd be extinct.
>>ANDREWS: We'd be extinct.
So something was going on.
So back in the early days when
I was a Geron Corporation,
we were looking at cells that
don't have telomere shortening
to find out why not.
And as a result, we discovered
an enzyme called telomerase.
It's produced in 85% to
95% of all cancer cells,
and it's also produced only
in our reproductive cells.
It's the only normal
cell in our body
where there's significant
levels of telomerase produced,
enough to keep the
telomeres from shortening.
So we discovered this
enzyme in, I think,
1993, somewhere
in the mid 1990s.
And one of the
first things we did
was to put it into normal skin
cells grown in a Petri dish,
and we found they
became immortal.
By the scientist's
definition of immortal,
meaning that they never
reach the Hayflick limit.
They never got senescent.
They just kept dividing
and dividing, and they--
>>REGINA: But they
weren't cancerous.
>>ANDREWS: They weren't cancer.
Cancer is often confusing.
The real definition of cancer
is lack of growth control.
All our cells
divide, but they're
told to stop at a certain point.
And that's called
growth control.
Cancers are where you
lose the growth control.
>>GROSSMAN: And the interesting
thing about cancer cells
are they express a lot of
telomerase, and as a result,
they're immortal.
So if we look at
certain diseases,
like a very common
one is called CLL,
chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
And what happens in this disease
is our white blood cells,
they normally have a
certain life expectancy,
and in CLL, because the
telomerase is active,
every time the cell divides,
instead of a little bit
of telomere length coming
away, this telomerase
acts to stick it back on.
So you'll start with a
white cell count of 5,000,
which is normal.
And it should stay around 5,000,
and that's the normal range.
But in this disease of
this type of leukemia,
because the cells don't divide,
as because the cells don't die,
and as the new cells are
formed, the next year your count
is 10,000.
The next year it's 20,000.
Then the next year it's 80,000.
And the next year it's 150.
And it just keeps going up
and up and up, and eventually
it kills patients,
because they have
too many of these beneficial
white blood cells,
because the cells
just don't die.
And that's really typical of
cancer is the cells don't die.
They're immortal.
>>ANDREWS: But if the
telomere's shortened,
the cells would die because
of the cell division.
And so--
>>REGINA: Which
it's interesting.
I mean, obviously people are
saying, wait a minute, but--
>>GROSSMAN: What
we'd like to learn
is how we can make
ourselves copy cancer.
In other words,
express more telomerase
so that they don't
die, and we also
want to know how we can stop
this telomerase from protecting
the cancer cells,
so we can kill them.
So we're interested.
Scientists are working
in both directions.
>>ANDREWS: The
simple way to think
of it is that a cell lives
longer if it has telomerase.
That is true for normal
cells and our cancer cells.
And so it's just like
eating carbohydrates.
When you eat, you're feeding
all the cells of your body,
including your cancer cells.
Now are we going to cure our
cancer by starving ourselves?
No.
So we have to
figure out some way
of allowing our normal cells
to benefit from the things
that cancer's benefiting
from without the cancer
cells benefiting anymore
than they already are or even
less than they are.
Now what has been
shown is that when
we inhibit telomerase
to cure cancer cells,
that only makes the
telomeres shorter.
The cells go into a
stage called crisis
if they're not
already in crisis.
They go into a
stage called crisis,
and all kinds of chromosomal
rearrangements occur.
And what happens is the
cell with various mutations
learns how to keep
the telomeres long
through some other mechanism
besides telomerase.
And this is the big--
>>REGINA: What is
this teaching science?
>>ANDREWS: Well, it's
teaching us that--
>>REGINA: I mean cancer cells
are so hardy, and as you say,
immortal.
>>ANDREWS: Cancer's been
a big problem since long
before Nixon declared
a war on cancer.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
But what are you
learning about it?
It seems like that would be
one of your greatest teachers
to unlock the secrets
of immortality.
>>ANDREWS: I think what
we're learning now,
and we're on the verge of it,
is the best way to fight cancer
is to actually keep
telomeres long.
OK.
Because then we don't
get the mutations
that cause anything else.
Now we can also inhibit--
we can first find ways
to poison telomerase
positive cells,
but do it in a way that doesn't
allow telomere shortening.
And as a result, the
cancer cells would die,
and then after the
cancer cells die,
then turn on telomerase
and all the other stuff.
You could actually do
it at the same time,
because most cancers are
already telomerase positive.
But you can turn it on
in the non-cancer cells
after the cancer's died, and
then lengthen the telomeres
and enjoy tremendously
better health.
>>REGINA: Has this been done?
I mean, is this being
experimented with now?
>>ANDREWS: No telomerase
inducer has been discovered yet
that is potent enough to
actually lengthen telomeres.
Now some things on
the market right now
have been shown to
be potent enough
to lengthen the
shortest telomeres.
But the average telomeres
still get shorter,
and we haven't done
enough research yet,
but I'm speculating
right now that these--
let's say an example is TA-65.
Another example is
Product B from Isagenix.
Both of these are natural
products that we have shown
in our lab do induce the
production of telomerase
in human cells.
TA-65 has actually had a
clinical study now completed,
and they've got more underway.
So has Isagenix.
But it's been shown that
when people are taking TA-65,
their shortest
telomeres will actually
get a little bit longer,
even though the longer
ones will still get shorter.
The shortest one gets
a little bit longer,
and that seems to provide
tremendous health benefits.
But I think what's
happening is they'll
get a little bit shorter,
and then stop there.
And so low levels of telomerase
will allow the shortest ones
to maintain themselves, whereas
the other ones are still
getting shorter.
So it's questionable how
long these kind of treatments
will take, but my
company is trying
to produce even stronger
telomerase inducers that
will actually lengthen even
the average telomere length.
And when we have
something like that,
then that's when we can
start asking these questions.
What will it do for cancer?
Because I'll be the
first one to admit,
I'm 99% percent certain that
telomerase will actually
decrease the risk
of getting cancer.
It's short telomeres
that cause cancer.
I think the lack of telomerase
is actually causing more cancer
than telomerase could ever do.
>>REGINA: And some people
might be saying, well,
aren't you messing
with mother nature?
Wasn't the body
essentially structured in
such a way that it has its
own perfect mechanisms?
>>ANDREWS: We've been
doing that forever.
Eyeglasses are a
perfect example of that.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
We have been.
What is?
>>ANDREWS: Eyeglasses.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Eyeglasses.
No.
I understand what you're saying.
If only cancer cells
and reproductive cells
have normally high amounts of
the secretion of telomerase,
then is it, I mean, you've
already answered the question.
Is it kind of messing with
the potentials of the body
to introduce that in
for all cells to enjoy?
>>GROSSMAN: Well,
living longer is really
what the goal of
medicine has been.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>GROSSMAN: So that's
what we're doing.
So I don't think
there's anything.
>>REGINA: No
different than taking
vitamins or minerals
or anything else.
>>GROSSMAN: We're
using antibiotics
to treat a bad infection.
We're taking out a
ruptured appendix.
>>REGINA: It just sounds so
profound and so essential
talking about life on
that level of chromosomes.
And I wanted to ask you too, the
products you were talking about
are almost all
botanically based?
>>ANDREWS: Some of them are.
The ones available
in the United States.
There's other products,
skin care products
that are available in
South Korea and Australia,
New Zealand, some
places in China, Japan
that are-- and hopefully
soon in the UAE and Denmark.
These are skin products
that will contain
synthetic chemicals
that are very
powerful telomerase inducers.
Still not powerful enough
to actually reverse
aging, but plenty powerful
enough not to slow down aging.
And by the way, when I say
they're not potent enough
to reduce aging, even
the natural products
are showing age reversal
in testimonials and stuff.
So we don't know
really how to measure
>>REGINA: It's a very
new science still.
>>ANDREWS: Very,
very new science.
>>REGINA: You referred
to a test earlier.
How reliable is the test?
Is it like a blood test where
you're just getting a snapshot,
but it's a dynamic that's
changing all the time in terms
of telomere length, or
how reliable is this test?
>>GROSSMAN: Well,
it's new technology.
And it's not as reliable
as it needs to be,
but it's what we have so far.
And it's been
perfected every year.
But it's not a perfect test yet.
>>REGINA: I assume you
both have taken this test
or have repeatedly,
and you're learning
about what's happening
in your own bodies,
and what are you
both discovering?
And I assume you're
using product?
>>GROSSMAN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK.
You're using product.
You're using your
protocols, and what are you
finding in your bodies?
>>ANDREWS: I've been
finding that my running has
improved dramatically.
At 60 years old, I broke
every distance record
that I've ever had.
I've been running--
competing and running
since I was 10 years
old, but when I was 60,
I broke my-- I didn't
break my one-mile record,
but I broke my 5K record.
I didn't break my 10K record,
but I broke everything
above that, so my half marathon,
my marathon, my 50-mile,
my 50K, my 100K, my 100-mile.
All those records fell.
My ultra marathon running was
only since I was in, we'll say,
early 40s, which
was 20 years ago.
But I still broke all
those records at 60,
and really, the only
thing I've been doing
is doing everything I can
to lengthen my telomeres.
I've also seen age
spots disappear
on my hands and my vision
getting better, and like three
ophthalmology
appointments in a row.
>>REGINA: And this is primarily
from the various products that
are being developed, and
you've been embracing?
>>ANDREWS: Historically, I'm
a pharmaceutical scientist.
I've been involved in a
lot of pharmaceuticals,
so I tend not to
believe in testimonials.
But I've been through so
many clinical studies,
I kind of like find myself
immune to placebo effects,
but what's going on
with me, I don't know.
>>REGINA: That's not
a placebo effect.
You have very young
looking hands, by the way.
>>ANDREWS: Thank you.
But I think, I'm
not going to stop
taking my telomerase inducers.
I'm doing everything
I can to keep
my telomeres as
long as possible.
>>REGINA: What about
your experience, Terry?
>>GROSSMAN: Well, I
do a lot of things
for trying to slow down and
reverse the aging process.
And telomere lengthening
strategies are one of them,
but I do things hormonally, I
do things detoxification wise,
so I do a lot of things.
Do a lot of
supplementation, et cetera.
But I feel that as
I go year by year,
the clock is not really
winding down as quickly as it
is for many of my friends,
people of my own age
that I see.
So I think that it is possible
to slow down the aging
process quite a bit by doing
any of these strategies.
And by putting
them all together,
it can create a very robust
mechanism for, essentially,
moving into your later years.
>>ANDREWS: How often do you
go to high school reunions?
>>GROSSMAN: I don't
do that anymore,
because I went to a
40th college reunion,
and I still have
nightmares about that.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
There's a disconnect there.
>>ANDREWS: I go to my
high school reunions,
and I feel like, they're
a bunch of old people now.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Yeah.
>>ANDREWS: They definitely say,
Bill, how come you're so young?
>>REGINA: I know.
It's sad.
OK.
So you're talking about
all the things you do,
which has to do with detoxing,
hormone supplementation,
and so forth.
Now doing that array
of things, protocols,
does that have the net effect
of lengthening the telomeres?
>>GROSSMAN: Absolutely.
I believe that they do.
>>REGINA: So you're doing
all of these things combined,
whereas for you, you're all
exercising and obviously
eating well.
But you're really looking
more to the pharmaceutical,
whether botanical or whatnot,
the pharmaceutical view
of lengthening the telomeres.
>>ANDREWS: I'm not focused
on anything anymore.
I'm focused on everything.
>>REGINA: On everything.
OK.
>>ANDREWS: I don't know if we
can say that, unless, Terry,
you have some data that
suggests otherwise,
that you're actually lengthening
telomeres, or just decreasing--
>>REGINA: Decreasing
the breakage.
Decreasing-- OK.
Gotcha.
Decreasing--
>>GROSSMAN: Slowing down
the rate of shortening.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK.
And now a lot of
people watch the film,
and say, who's the
guy with the big beard
and the British accent?
And they want to know a
little more about-- he's
a fascinating character
that's carried
throughout the film,
The Immortalist."
And his name is
Aubrey, Aubrey de Grey.
And tell us a little
bit about him,
because people
watching this are going
to want to know more
about him as well.
>>ANDREWS: I would almost
consider Aubrey de Grey
one of my best friends.
He and I have known each other
for maybe 10, 15 years now.
We both share a very big passion
about trying to cure aging.
We have different
approaches and stuff.
>>REGINA: What's his background?
His background-- well,
that's a good question.
>>GROSSMAN: He's an engineer,
I believe by training.
He's an engineer right now.
>>REGINA: And he's
obviously a genius.
He's a brilliant guy.
>>ANDREWS: He actually
hasn't been somebody that's
worked in the laboratory
doing science,
but he sure studied it a
lot because of his obsession
to cure his own aging.
And he wants to
be younger again,
so that's why he and
I are good friends
is we share that same passion.
But he's also very,
very open-minded.
He's a sponge for
learning new things.
He's learning.
He's trying to put together the
models to explain everything,
because he just wants to
really be younger himself.
He's not looking for
fame and glory, which
is one thing I like about him.
He can't wait to be a nobody.
>>REGINA: But he has amassed a
very high degree of knowledge
in the area.
>>ANDREWS: Yes.
Extremely high.
>>REGINA: OK.
And he took that knowledge.
We're going to roll a
bit of video in a minute.
He took that
knowledge to England
into an academic environment.
Tell us a little bit about the
group he spoke in front of.
>>ANDREWS: This was a debate.
Colin Blakemore is a
scientist in England
that argued that we
shouldn't be doing anything
to extend lifespan.
And I've never been really
positive about debates,
because they got these
rules and stuff like that.
So we don't really--
>>REGINA: We're now
looking at the outcome.
We're just going to show
a little clip of how
Aubry presented.
>>ANDREWS: He did a
great job presenting.
>>REGINA: And it was mostly
medical students and people
he was speaking in front of?
>>ANDREWS: I don't know
who the audience was.
>>REGINA: OK.
All right.
So I think--
>>ANDREWS: I would imagine
it was just general public.
>>REGINA: General public.
OK.
Very good.
Let's take a look
at how Aubrey spoke
about the notion of our
rights to immortality
or whatever the soundbite
is going to say.
>>DE GREY: If you oppose
this motion, in other words,
if you're thinking that you
don't want to defeat aging
entirely, then you must be
holding one of two positions.
Either there is
some age at which
you think it is good
for people to get sick,
or there is some age at which
you think it is good for people
to die, even if they're
perfectly healthy.
They both sound pretty
ageist, don't they?
The only reason that
we regard medicine
for old people in
a different way
than medicine for young people
today is because of the fact
that we don't have good
medicine for old people today.
There is not an argument for
not developing that medicine.
Many people, when we
talk about this question,
they say, oh, dear.
What if we have too many people?
What we have is a dramatic
decline in the death
rate, people carrying
on being born,
far too many people, massive
environmental problems,
don't want to go there.
Maybe.
Maybe we will But
maybe we won't.
We know nothing
about what the birth
rate is going to be
100 years from now.
We know nothing at all
about other technologies
that may reduce our
carbon footprint
and thereby increase
the carrying
capacity of the planet,
thereby eliminating the problem
in another way.
The scenario that we
should be avoiding
is a scenario in which
humanity of the future
looks back and blames us
for not developing medicines
against aging, and thereby
for condemning them
to an unnecessarily miserable
old age and an unnecessarily
early death, just
because we thought
we were so clever about how
the world was going to be,
and we thought that it was
actually doing them a favor not
to develop these medicines.
I don't want to be blamed
by our descendants,
and I don't think you do either.
Thank you very much.
>>REGINA: In this casual debate,
he ended up losing the debate,
and part of it was
because people simply
can't embrace that
our human race,
along with the other
species as well,
don't have a built-in
expiration date.
That's hardwired into
us, and we already
know from the realm
of research that's
being done in the field of
how mind affects physiology
in quantum science from
Bruce Lipton's work
and so forth, epigenetics,
that the mind very much affects
all aspects of the
body's functioning.
Right?
>>ANDREWS: Yes.
And I don't understand why
Aubrey lost that debate.
I thought he did a great
presentation in support of it.
>>REGINA: I think, again, it's
the resistance to this one
thing.
Are we entitled to live past
our normal expiration date
as a species?
You feel that we should not
expect that we must die,
that we should become
exempt from the process
of physical death?
>>ANDREWS: Yeah.
I mean, I think
there's lots of reasons
why we should be living longer.
The question is why do we
have such short lifespans
to begin with?
And I think the
best explanations
for that is that
bottom line is there's
no evolutionary advantage
to living longer
than it takes to
raise our young.
After that, we just
get in the way.
And so in an
evolutionary sense, if we
want to adapt to a
changing environment,
we have to be shuffling
our genes all the time.
And the way to shuffle
our genes the best
is to allow our children to
find mates and reproduce and et
cetera, et cetera.
And if the old, let's
say, animals or humans
don't die off, then the
young could never compete.
And so I think
that's why we evolve
this whole business of
shortening our lifespans.
But humans now, we've gotten--
I know several examples
of why I would
disagree with what
I'm about to say-- but we've
gotten smarter than evolution.
We have learned how to
adapt by using our brains.
Adapt to changing
environments and things.
And so I think we can
survive as a species
a lot better by undoing all the
things that evolution has done,
and including creating
an aging process.
>>GROSSMAN: Well,
just consider what
an enormous waste it is
when an individual dies.
I mean a person
at 80 years of age
has all of those
years of experience
and all that wisdom that has
been achieved through all
of those decades of
living, and when they die,
that disappears from-- I
mean, the economic costs
are enormous, and if we
didn't have that loss,
it would be a boon
to civilization,
to humankind to have all of
this additional knowledge
be available for a
longer period of time.
I mean, we're only supposed
to live for 30 years
evolutionarily.
15 years to become sexually
mature, then reproduce,
and then another 15 years to
raise the next generation.
Then at 30, the aging
process kicks in,
and we're supposed to go away.
So I mean, we've been increasing
that steadily until now.
Many people are living
into their 80s and 90s,
and I think in the decades
later in this century,
it's going to go beyond
150 years into 200,
and then people will
be living in centuries.
And it'll be a whole
different ball game for us.
>>REGINA: Do you feel that
also that it's our birthright,
if not to achieve
immortality, certainly
to be working
toward immortality?
>>GROSSMAN: Well, I think
that, certainly, most of us
believe that life is
inherently good and valuable.
We love the fact
that we're alive.
We look forward to the next day.
I mean this is an incredible
blessing to all of us
to have this gift
of life, and I think
that anything we can
do to extend that.
A lot of people
think that, well,
I don't want to live to be
120, because I'll be decrepit,
I'll be in a wheelchair, I'll
have a poor quality of life.
But that's not what
we're talking about.
We're talking about--
>>REGINA: Extending
quality of life.
>>GROSSMAN: Yeah, where they
say that 60 is the new 40,
and now 80 is the new 60.
And I think that
we're just going
to continue to do that to where
people will be 100 and 120
and still enjoying a vigorous
life into the future.
So extending life
like that, I think,
is an extremely
valuable thing to do.
>>ANDREWS: And maybe
the reason Aubrey
lost that debate
is you're right.
Maybe the people in the audience
couldn't comprehend that
completely, because
it was so new to them.
But I believe that if people
thought about it more,
and they realized
that we're not talking
about creating a
lot of old people.
We're creating a
lot of old people
that are young and healthy.
>>REGINA: I think
where a lot of people
go with that, if they've given
it any consideration at all,
is, oh, my god, what if
we start living to be 200?
What happens to the
planet, the population,
the size of the
population, the resources?
Who gets the jobs if you're
healthy and 120, and you've got
a 30-year-old that's
starting a family?
How do you even
begin to reconcile
all of these knocked
on effects off--
>>ANDREWS: I have a
lot of faith in humans
and their ability to survive
to different things happening.
I think the world wide
web is the best example.
I mean, this was introduced
and pushed on to all of us,
and we all adapted very quickly.
I think this is
going to be the same.
And I believe that, let's
say, 100 years from now, maybe
200 years from now, we
have a cure for aging,
and now the population
is suffering
from all these problems
of overpopulation.
And I think a bigger problem
is, how would the young ever
compete for jobs if the
old people never retire?
>>REGINA: That's happening now.
>>ANDREWS: Well,
it's always happened.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
I mean, but more so now.
>>ANDREWS: I think
that 200 years from now
if all these problems
existed, and somebody said,
we should put
something on the ballot
and vote on, should we ban
the cure for aging, nobody's
going to vote in favor of
banning the cure for aging.
That's good.
>>REGINA: I don't
think they are.
No.
I don't think they are,
but I want to throw in--
>>ANDREWS: We'll find
some other solution.
>>GROSSMAN: We also need
to think about the fact
that we will very likely
have the possibility
to live virtually, and in
these virtual environments
that we live, we won't use
up a lot of the resources.
I mean just a little
bit of electricity to--
>>REGINA: That is true.
And I want to bring a
more esoteric aspect
to the conversation,
and that is the majority
of the planet, the various
religions of the planet,
tend to embrace the whole
notion of reincarnation.
So when you start taking
into consideration,
say there is the karmic
wheel, and we come back,
and we just learn, refine,
learn, refine, come back again.
Then does the length of the
lifespan of the physical body
have the same import?
Because you say so
much is lost when
you die at the age of 80 of
experience and knowledge.
>>GROSSMAN: Right.
And this idea of immortality
means an eternal life,
and eternity is a
really long time.
So if we go from living 80
years to living 300 years or 500
years, that's still just a
drop in the bucket compared
to eternity.
So these other philosophical
and religious views,
whether they're on
rebirths or reincarnation,
you still have a lot
of time to deal with.
>>REGINA: Well, absolutely.
But you understand
the question is,
is a fear of no longer
existing, perhaps,
one of the motivating factors
behind longevity research?
>>GROSSMAN: Well, absolutely.
I think that people that
are involved in this
would like to not have to die.
I mean, as a longevity clinic,
people come to my office,
and when you go to a
doctor's office, they'll say,
what's your chief complaint?
Why are you here?
And I can't tell you how
many people have said,
because I'm mortal.
Because I don't want to die.
People are taking this
idea that immortality
may be around the corner.
They're taking it
very seriously,
and they want it for themselves.
>>REGINA: And so
let's extend it out
to those who say, OK, I may
die, but I'll be back, maybe
as my own grandson.
I'll be back, and I'll be
experiencing life again.
Maybe there's some
knocked on memory
that's contained within the
soul or the greater being
that comes with that.
More experience, new vehicle.
So how does that part factor in?
Would you say if a
person were embracing
the notion of reincarnation,
would it fit the same?
>>GROSSMAN: These are
not mutually exclusive.
>>REGINA: OK.
Yeah.
Let's talk about that.
>>GROSSMAN: Just because we can
live a longer period of time,
whether it's 150 years or
500 years, nonetheless,
if these other religious
concepts of reincarnation
are true, you still
get to come back.
It doesn't stop there.
It doesn't have to
be one or the other.
It could easily be both.
>>REGINA: But that
is an argument,
which is, hey, we're
going to come back anyway.
So what difference if
I last to be 120 or 80?
There is that argument
from many people.
>>ANDREWS: What we are
is an accumulation of all
of our memories and things we've
learned and things like that.
And if we come back, we don't
bring those back with us.
And so we're starting
from scratch again,
so all that is still lost.
And you know, I
agree with Terry.
It's mutually exclusive.
We can still come back.
We can still die and
come back, but why not--
>>REGINA: Instead of 80, you
just get a couple hundred.
>>ANDREWS: Yeah.
Let's do 200 years from
now instead of 100.
But the other thing
is I don't look
at-- you had mentioned
when you first brought it
up that there's a fear
of dying, essentially.
I don't look at it that way.
I just, I love living.
I would like to live
as long as I can.
As long as I'm enjoying it,
I want it to keep on going.
If something happens to
me, and suddenly I've
realized that the
rest of my life
is going to be really
miserable and stuff like that,
maybe the choice is to let
myself go and come back
as somebody else.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Get a new body.
Start again.
Get to go through all the dating
and romance and hormones of 15
again.
>>ANDREWS: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Whether that's
a good thing or bad thing.
But it is an argument
about what fuels
this search for longevity,
because you can't help but get
religious and ethics and
philosophical issues involved
in this subject.
>>ANDREWS: Well, I can tell
you that the-- I was really
worried about what like
the Catholic Church
thought about what we
were doing and stuff.
And one time I was
on an airplane,
and there was a woman
that I sat next to,
and she was in her whole nun
habit and stuff like that,
outfit and stuff like that.
So I just talked to
her, and it turned out
she was a writer for
the Catholic Church.
And she was
traveling, because she
speaks at a lot of
different things.
And she ended up writing a
chapter in my first book saying
that what we're doing
is the right thing.
It's part of it, as
she put it, God's will.
God kicked us out of
the Garden of Eden,
because we did some wrong
things, but God wants us back.
He wants us to
find our way back.
And part of that is
regaining our immortality
like we had when we were
still in the Garden of Eden.
>>REGINA: Beautiful.
Beautiful.
We only have a
couple minutes left,
so how did you both feel about
the film "The Immortalist,"
and what was the overarching
message of the film?
>>ANDREWS: Well, let me
say, my first thought was, I
was terrified when I was
going to first see it.
I saw it at the South by
Southwest Film Festival.
But I was blown
away at how gifted
the directors are, and
the people that put
that together-- the directors
and everybody else involved.
The music is just
unbelievably good.
Forget about me and
Aubrey and Terry.
I mean, the way these guys
just took a lot of scenes,
they spent four
years filming us,
and then put all this
together into an absolutely
fantastic, entertaining
account of the research.
>>REGINA: And there was a
really heart rending moment
with one of the people that
was involved in the documentary
that all of you had to contend
with when it comes to life.
>>ANDREWS: Yeah.
Well, there was
actually three people.
>>REGINA: I was
speaking of Randy.
>>ANDREWS: OK.
So Randy Lee.
Yeah.
He was very into this research.
He's a friend of mine
from high school,
and he came to work with me,
because he was very passionate
about our research.
And at the beginning of the
filming of this documentary,
he had no idea, but later on,
he discovered he had cancer.
And still during the
filming of this documentary,
he passed away from his cancer.
But Leonard Hayflick's
mother died during the thing,
and so did Aubrey's mother.
>>REGINA: Right.
So you're all dealing
with mortality
up close and in your
face during this.
>>ANDREWS: And my father
is not doing well,
and he believes that I'm
still going to come through
with something to cure his
problems, and I'm hoping I can.
It's a very fast race.
>>REGINA: It is, indeed.
>>GROSSMAN: And I
think that, you know,
the main purpose of a
film is to entertain,
and I found the film
very entertaining.
I enjoyed it a great deal.
I think that Jason and
David, the directors,
did a fantastic job of that, and
I was enthralled to watch it.
It really hooked me.
>>REGINA: Very good.
Well, we invite all of
our viewers to watch.
If they haven't already
seen it, now they know you,
so there's even more
incentive to take a watch.
So again, thank you
so much for your time
and helping explain this
exciting new science
to all of us.
>>ANDREWS: Thank you.
>>GROSSMAN: Thanks, so much.
>>REGINA: You can watch the
film, "The Immortalist," which
features the lives
of a few researchers
in their personal
search for longevity
here on Gaiam TV
under Documentaries.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.